# Introduction: The Mismatch

BG Story: 1891 Beach Haven, Shark --> Trust science or instinct?
Instinct: sophysicated, but not always right.
Behaviors associated with 4 specific kinds of failures:
1) Many of us frequently disengage, becoming apathetic 【curiosity】
   hunmans are by nature curious, with a few strokes on a computer keyboard we can find the answer to any question that occurs to us.
3) We often don't correctly size up our leaders 【Mind reading】
   one of the critical diff. human and all other creatues is the ability to read one another's intentions, which develops by the age of four. （作者质疑，但是对政客的理解是有距离的，与直接接触身边人的理解完全不同。所以这种论证质疑不严谨。）
5) We punish politicians who tell us the hard truths 【Realism】
6) We often fail to show empathy in circumstances that clearly cry out for it. 【Empathy】
   we don't feel their pain but we experience the same emotions they are feeling. 
   
   In politicst, these 4 don't work. They malfunction, misfire and lead us astray.
   Why?
   Answer: our instincts were baked into human DNA in Pleistocene, 99% of the time we're on the planet. Modern politics is so different than the time in Pleistocene, we were not designed for that. Biologists estimate fundemental changes in species take up to 25k years. It has been only 10k years we live as hunter-garthers in Pleistocene, 400 generations. This is the gap we are up against. 
   
   Our modern skulls house a stone age mind.
   
   
A standard political science view of elections: when times are bad, people vote against the party in office, regardless of whether those officeholders have any responsibility for the problem. "If a meteor hit Arizona, they'd vote against the incumbents".

Shark attacks --> reduced te vote for Woodrow Wilson in the fall of 1916.

shark attachs --> economic catastrophe for the beachfront communities that depedned on the summer trade for their sustenance. After the second attack, the summer tourists panicked. Hotels emptied out, and little businesses that catered to the tourists went bankrupt. The attacks cost New Jesrsey about $1M in business ($16M in today's dollars).

Achen's finding: statewise about the same as 4 years ago, 4 counties where fear was highest and economy was ipcacted the most follwoing the attacks, his support declinde  by about 3%. 
Springlake: -9%. Charles Bruder was skilled.
Beach Haven: -11%. Charles Vansant was killed. 

The shark attacks in 1916 had te same effect on the voters of Spring Lake and Beach Haven that the Great Depression had on voters statewide in 1932.
1916 Europe was in war, but the communites in SL and BH voted against Wilson more because the shark attaches, leaders should be held repsonsible onlt for what they can reasonably be held responsible for. 

If you ask the voters, they would have given you an answer that sounds reasonble. We often lie about our reasons for doing what we do in politics. We lie to ourselfves.
Get the truth, cannot simply ask them, but study their behaviour as a group.

Achen teamed up with Larry Bartels: How Bad Weather would affect the election (extraneuous forces have political consequences when the effect is negartic). Dnaile Gillbert, Havard's psychologisit: human brain is deisgned to focus on the negative, this is an evolutionary adaptation that helped save the human race.

Research: Bush-ore election of 2000 in Florida. 

Jan 2000, counties affected by drought. Feb and March look about the same. April, drought conditions were spreading. In June, hard drought conditions covered half of Florida. August extreme drought half of the state. By Sept., extreme drought period dened. "So what?"

"A drought should not affect the vote citizens cast in a presidential election because presidents can't be held responsible for the weather any more thatn they can be held responsible for shark attacks."
天听自我民听，天视自我民视。中国的执政者，将自然现象也归纳在职责之内，认为是上天的预警。

(Dust Bowl in 1930s. 有时政策的制定也会影响自然环境，但这不是2000的case)

Regression analysis: Gore should have won by thousands of votes and become president. Florida should not led Bush to win. 

extended the study to other states, conclusion:
voters across Arizona, Louisiana, Nevada, New Hampshire, tennessees adn Missouri. Agg. num of people who let the weather affect their vote 2.7% of the total electorate, 2.8M people, voted against Gore in 2000 because their states were too dry or too wet.


extend to entire century going back to 1896: check weather statistics supplied by NOAA, over and over again they found the same pattern. （实证主义，结论要经得起大范围的论证，就像自然科学的实验，科学原理的论证，需要具有可重复实验性。）

Startling conclusion:

The strength and consistency of these results across a variety of regression analyses employing different versions of our drought index should leave little doubt that droughts and floods in general have a negative effect on electoral support for the president's party. That negative effect is not coincidential; nor is it simply a matter of voters rationally punishing paricular presidents for failling to prepare adequately for or respond adequately to particular disasters. It is a persvasive risk to the reelction chances of every incumbent party, and no more constrollable than the rain.

Is it possibley our instincts that are responsible? Hidden forcases can shape our politics.


March Madness: go crazy about college basketball. Sports results affect election as well. 2010 Proceddings of he National Academy of Sciences, Andrew Healy, Neil Malhotra etc.:
These resulits provide evidence that voting decisions are influenced by irrelevant events that have nothing to do with the competence or effectiveness of the incumbent government."

A modern cue is setting off an ancient instinct. 

Conclusion: There's a mismacth between the brain we inheriated from the Stone Age, when mankind lived in small communities, and the brain we need to deal with the challenges we face in a democartic society consisting of illions of people. 
In the end, our politics are the result of a tug-of-war raging inside the brain between our instincts (and the emtional respsonses they trigger) and higher-order cognition. 


Answer foure questions with the help of science:
1) Why arent voters more curious and kowlegeeable?
2) Why do we find reading politicians so difficult?
3) Why aren't we more realistic?
4) Why does our empathy for people in trouble often seem in such short supply?


@2/28/2021
